Cymon - A Pokémon-Inspired Turn-Based Adventure Game
Cymon is a full-stack adventure game inspired by the classic Pokémon series. Built using modern development practices, it features user authentication, dynamic Cymon capture and battles, and persistent progression across sessions.

Features
User Login & Authentication: Account creation and login system with persistent user sessions. Tracks progress, Cymon ownership, and battle history.

Cymon Capture and Training: Discover and collect a variety of Cymons with unique abilities and evolutions.

Strategic Turn-Based Battles: Battle AI or other trainers using move selection, type matchups, and status effects.

Exploration and Worldbuilding: Navigate various environments, trigger events, and interact with in-game characters.

Custom Team Building: Train and manage your team of Cymons for optimal performance in battles and quests.

Architecture
This is a full-stack application with frontend and backend separation.

Frontend
Platform: Android (Java, Android Studio)

Key Features:

Navigation between login, exploration, and battle views

Real-time UI updates via WebSockets

User-friendly interface styled for mobile gameplay

Backend
Language: Java (Spring Boot)

Database: MySQL (hosted locally or remotely)

Functionality:

Stores user profiles, Cymon stats, battle records

WebSocket-based real-time communication for battles

RESTful API endpoints for game logic and user actions

DevOps & Workflow
CI/CD: Automated builds and deployments using GitHub Actions and local pipelines.

Version Control: Managed with Git and GitHub. Branching strategy followed Git Flow.

Agile Methodology:

Two-week sprints with user stories and retrospectives

Trello used for backlog management and sprint tracking

Team standups and code reviews during active development

Installation
Android Client
Clone the repository:

bash
Copy
Edit
git clone https://github.com/GrantPierce94/cymon.git
Open /frontend in Android Studio.

Sync Gradle and run on emulator or physical device.

Backend Server
Install Java 11+ and MySQL.

Configure the database using provided schema scripts in /backend/sql/.

Navigate to /backend and build the application:

bash
Copy
Edit
./gradlew build
java -jar build/libs/cymon-server.jar
How to Play
Create an account and log in.

Explore the game world to encounter Cymons.

Capture, train, and battle your team in turn-based combat.

Progress through quests and gyms to become a top trainer.

Tech Stack
Frontend: Android, Java, XML Layouts

Backend: Java (Spring Boot), WebSockets, REST

Database: MySQL

DevOps: GitHub Actions, Git, Trello

Contributors
Grant Pierce

Jack

Danny

License
MIT License




